# OSPP 2025

Community Contact: @RuoqingHe

## Accepted Projects

# Project Name

GStreamer Backend for vhost-device-sound

## Project Mentor

Matias Ezequiel Vara Larsen <mvaralar@redhat.com>

## Project Description

virtio-sound device emulation has recently been developed in the Rust [vhost-device-sound](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/tree/main/vhost-device-sound) crate.
The crate currently contains audio backends for the ALSA and PipeWire sound APIs. The aim of this project is to build a new
[GStreamer](https://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/documentation/?gi-language=c) audio backend.

Audio backends are written by implementing the [AudioBackend trait](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/b113dc6b288ff2b75968e245a716dc7e1436aec1/vhost-device-sound/src/audio_backends.rs#L20).
Refer to [alsa.rs](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/vhost-device-sound/src/audio_backends/alsa.rs) and
[pipewire.rs](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/main/vhost-device-sound/src/audio_backends/pipewire.rs) for examples of existing backends.
The [Stream](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/6ca911eb5f6a73c534e234eedea90cf26d1d71ad/vhost-device-sound/src/stream.rs#L174) and
[Buffer](https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/blob/6ca911eb5f6a73c534e234eedea90cf26d1d71ad/vhost-device-sound/src/stream.rs#L242) structs are used to
transfer audio samples between the virtio-sound device and the sound API (e.g. GStreamer).

The backend should be implemented using the [GStreamer Rust bindings](https://gitlab.freedesktop.org/gstreamer/gstreamer-rs/-/tree/main). Mono and stereo
playback and capture should be supported. The GStreamer pipelines for playback and capture
will be hardcoded and only Linux needs to be supported.

## Project Notes

- The project focuses on adding a GStreamer-based audio backend to the vhost-device-sound crate, which currently supports ALSA and PipeWire.
- The implementation will follow the AudioBackend trait used by existing backends.
- The GStreamer Rust bindings will be used to integrate the new gstreamer audio backend.
- The backend will support mono and stereo playback and capture with hardcoded GStreamer pipelines.
- The implementation will be tested using QEMU as the vhost-user frontend.
- Automated tests will be written using cargo test.
- A possible stretch goal is contributing to rust-vmm/vhost-device by fixing existing issues.

### Other contacts

Dorinda Bassey <dbassey@redhat.com>, Stefano Garzarella <sgarzare@redhat.com>

## Project Difficulty

Advanced (some understanding of QEMU pci device would be good to know)

## Project Size

180 Hours

## Technical Domain Labels

[Virtualization] | [Emulation] | [Vhost-user]

## Programming Language Labels

[Rust]

## Expect Outcome

1. Functional GStreamer Audio Backend
    - A working implementation of a GStreamer-based audio backend in the vhost-device-sound crate.
    - Supports playback and capture in both mono and stereo formats.
2. Integration with vhost-device-sound
    - The new backend follows the AudioBackend trait and integrates well with the existing infrastructure.
3. Automated Testing
    - Unit tests for the backend using cargo test.
    - Verification through QEMU testing.
4. Documentation and Upstreaming
    - Well-documented and upstreamed code following Rust and rust-vmm coding standards.

## Project Technical Requirements

Libraries & Tools:
- vhost-device-sound crate
- GStreamer Rust bindings
- QEMU for testing the vhost-user integration

## Project Repository

https://github.com/rust-vmm/vhost-device/tree/main/vhost-device-sound/src
